For a long time, the Ancestral Recombination Graph (ARG) has been an object of fascination to those interested in theoretical evolutionary genetics, as it captures all knowable genetic history of a collection of individual genomes. Recently advances in our ability to infer ARGs has led to a resurgence of interest in this field. However, these have also given rise to certain terminological confusion, which we aim to clear up in this paper.

One major source of confusion is the use of the term "ARG" to refer to both a backwards-in-time generative process (Griffeths) and a structure which can be created by that process (Minichello & Durbin). We suggest that the process definition should be called the "coalescent with recombination" (CwR), reserving the term ARG to refer to the graph structure itself.

This graph structure, which can in fact be generated either forwards or backwards in time, consists  of a collection of genomes (represented by *nodes*) connected by paths of genetic inheritance (*edges*). Since genetic inheritance is unidirectional, the edges are *directed*, with a "parent" and "child" node. Moreover, there can be no cycles in the graph, therefore the ARG is technically a form of "directed acyclic graph". One way in this can be ensured is to associate nodes with specific *times*, and for parent nodes to be older than their children.

The process of inheritance means that an ARG is a very specific form of DAG. In particular, although a genome may have more than one parent, because inheritance is particulate, any particular base pair in a genome only has a *single* parent. Therefore, the paths of inheritance for a *specific position* in the genome of a set of individuals are described by a *tree*. Assuming that we can align the genomes in question, we can work our way along the alignment and by examining the graph we can extract a "local tree" at each position.

To allow this extraction to occur, the graph must be annotated in some way, allowing us to decide, at any node with more than one parent, which of the parents was the source of each base pair in the genome. We call any such node a *recombination node*. Fortunately, the biological details of inheritance mean that this information can be encoded in a succinct form: we do not have to individually assign each base pair a separate parent. For example, if we assume that the ARG is describing a single chromosome, and there is only one recombination per chromosome, we can assign a single *breakpoint* to each recombination node: base pairs to the left of the breakpoint come from one parent, base pairs to the right come from the other.

This particular ARG encoding, although common, is somewhat restrictive: not only can it not be extended to multiple chromosomes or multiple recombinations along a chromosome, but it cannot easily incorporate the very common process of gene conversion.